 **useState (The Memory):**

  - Definition: Adds a state variable to your component. It returns a pair: the current state value and a function to update it.
  - Use: When you need data to change over time (counters, form inputs, toggles).
  - Syntax: const [state, setState] = useState(initialValue);
   example:
   import { useState } from 'react';

function Counter() {
  // 1. Declare state variable "count" (initial 0)
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>You clicked {count} times</p>
      {/* 2. Update state using setCount */}
      <button onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>
        Click me
      </button>
    </div>
  );
  }

## Syntax:
const [state, setState] = useState(initialState)
state: It is the value of the current state.
setState: It is the function that is used to update the state.
initialState: It is the initial value of the state.

## How Does useState() Work?
The useState() hook allows you to add state to functional components in React. It works by:

1. Initialize State: When you call useState(initialValue), it creates a state variable and an updater function.

const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
2. State is Preserved Across Renders: React remembers the state value between re-renders of the component. Each time the component renders, React keeps the latest value of count.

3. State Updates with the Updater Function: When you call setCount(newValue) React updates the state and it re-renders the component to reflect the new state value.

<button onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>Increment</button>
4. Triggers Re-render: React will re-render only the component where useState was used—ensuring your UI updates automatically when the state changes.