## React Events ##
- In React, events are actions that occur within an application, such as clicking a button, typing in a text field, or moving the mouse. React provides an efficient way to handle these actions using its event system. Event handlers like onClick, onChange, and onSubmit are used to capture and respond to these events.

- Syntax:
 <element onEvent={handlerFunction} />
 
example: 
function App() {
    const [inp, setINP] = useState("");
    const [name, setName] = useState("");

    const clk = () => {
        setName(inp);
        setINP("");
    };

    return (
        <div className="App">
            <h1>GeeksforGeeks</h1>
            {name ? <h2>Your Name: {name}</h2> : null}
            <input
                type="text"
                placeholder="Enter your name..."
                onChange={(e) => setINP(e.target.value)}
                value={inp}
            />
            <button onClick={clk}>Save</button>
        </div>
    );
}

export default App;


**Commonly Used React Event Handlers**

- onClick: This event is used to detect mouse clicks in the user interface.

- onChange: This event is used to detect a change in the input field in the user interface.

- onSubmit: This event fires on the submission of a form in the user interface and is also used to prevent the default behavior of the form.

- onKeyDown: This event occurs when the user press any key from the keyboard.

- onKeyUp: This event occurs when the user releases any key from the keyboard.

- onMouseEnter: This event occurs when the ouse enters the boundary of the element

**Handling Events in React**

1. Adding Event Handlers
2. Reading Props in Event Handlers
3. Passing Event Handlers as Props
4. Naming Event Handler Props

- perform these handling events in a dummy project