## onBlur ##
- In React, handling user interactions efficiently is important for building responsive and dynamic applications. One of the commonly used events for managing focus behaviour is the onBlur event. This event is important for tracking when a user moves the focus away from an element, such as an input field or a button.

- The onBlur event in React is a synthetic event that is triggered when an element loses focus. It is commonly used with form elements like input fields, text areas, and buttons to handle situations when the user moves away from an element, either by clicking elsewhere on the page or navigating to another element using the keyboard (e.g., pressing the "Tab" key).

- Syntax:
<Element onBlur={handleBlur} />

**When Does the onBlur Event Get Triggered?**

- The onBlur event gets triggered when an element loses focus. This can happen in several ways:

. The user clicks outside the element.
. The user presses the "Tab" key to navigate to another element.
. The user clicks or focuses on another interactive element, such as a button or link.

*Handling the onBlur Event*
- The onBlur event in React is fired when an element loses focus. This event is commonly used for performing actions after a user finishes interacting with an input field, such as form validation, UI updates, or saving data.

import React, { useState } from 'react';

function App() {
    const [value, setValue] = useState('');

    const handleBlur = () => {
        console.log('Input blurred');
    };

    return (
        <form action="">
            <label htmlFor="">Name:</label>
            <input
                type="text"
                value={value}
                placeholder='Write Your Name'
                onChange={
                    (e) => 
                    setValue(e.target.value)}
                onBlur={handleBlur}
            />
        </form>
    );
}

export default App;


