## Mastering React Routing: Learn Navigation and Routing in React Apps ##

- React Routing is a technique used to handle navigation within a React application. It enables users to move between different views, pages, or components without refreshing the entire page, which is a key feature of Single Page Applications (SPAs).

**What is Navigation in React?**
- Navigation refers to the process of moving between different views or sections within a React application. In React, most applications are developed as Single Page Applications (SPA), where the entire application is loaded initially, and subsequent navigation doesn't require reloading pages from the server. Instead, routing is handled on the client side, enabling smooth transitions between different components or views without full page reloads.


**Dynamic Routing with React router**

- Adding Link routes gets very lengthy when there are multiple pages, so we use the concept of Dynamic Routing to reduce the lines of code and make the code shorter. Dynamic routing allows you to define routes dynamically based on certain conditions.

. Create a page which will create Link components using map
. Create a page which will display data dynamically using useParams
. Create a dynamic Route component which passes the id as a parameter

// components/CourseDetails.js

import { useParams } from "react-router-dom";

function CourseDetails() {
    const { courseId } = useParams();
    return (
        <div>
            <h1>This is {courseId} course</h1>
        </div>
    );
}

export default CourseDetails;

// App.js

import { BrowserRouter, Routes, Route, Link } from "react-router-dom";
import CourseDetails from "./components/CourseDetails";

function App() {
    const courses = ["JavaScript", "React", "HTML", "DSA"];
    return (
        <BrowserRouter>
            <h1>Dynamic Routing with React</h1>
            <ul>
                {courses.map((course) => {
                    return (
                        <li key={course}>
                            <Link to={`courses/${course}`}>{course}</Link>
                        </li>
                    );
                })}
            </ul>
            <Routes>
                <Route path="courses/:courseId" element={<CourseDetails />} />
            </Routes>
        </BrowserRouter>
    );
}

export default App;

In this code

App.js: This file creates Link component dynamically and sends course name as a parameter
CourseDetails.js: This file accesses the course as a parameter and passes it.


**Handling 404 Errors (Page Not Found)**

- Sometimes user types a URL which does not exist in the website and the router fails and shows an error. To solve this problem we create a universal Route component which redirects to Link not found page whenever incorrect URL is passed.

// App.js

import logo from "./logo.svg";
import { BrowserRouter, Routes, Route } from "react-router-dom";
import "./App.css";
import NavBar from "./components/Navbar";
import Home from "./components/Home";
import AboutUs from "./components/AboutUs";
import ContactUs from "./components/CotactUs";
import NoPageFound from "./components/NoPageFound";

function App() {
    return (
        <div className="App">
            <BrowserRouter>
                <NavBar />
                <Routes>
                    <Route exact path="/" element={<Home />} />
                    <Route exact path="/about" element={<AboutUs />} />
                    <Route exact path="/contact" element={<ContactUs />} />
                    <Route path="*" element={<NoPageFound />} />
                </Routes>
            </BrowserRouter>
        </div>
    );
}

export default App;

